This is the ultimate Fortnite Chapter 6
season 3 optimization guide. I've made
countless highly rated optimization
guides and after following this video,
you will get higher FPS, lower input
delay, and a faster feeling system
overall. So, let's start by opening
Fortnite and going to settings. Because
if your Fortnite settings aren't fully
optimized, you're already leaving
performance on the table. And no Windows
tweak is going to make up for the FPS
you've already lost. The first setting
you'll see at the top is window mode.
Put simply, exclusive full screen
usually gives you the lowest input
delay, while windowed full screen tends
to give higher and more consistent FPS,
allows you to tab out of your game
quicker, and lets you seamlessly drag
your mouse across multiple monitors. Not
even pro players can agree on a single
option here, so it's definitely personal
preference. Just pick the one you like
more. Next is resolution. Set your
resolution to your monitor screen size
no matter what. Do not decrease the
resolution to get more FPS. We can fix
that issue with the 3D resolution
setting in a second. Next is VSSync.
turn it off because it adds a ton of
unnecessary input delay for the frame
rate limit. Despite the fact that you
will get better 1% lows with uncapped
FPS, it also adds a lot of delay. When
your FPS is higher than your monitor's
refresh rate, your GPU has extra frames
lined up to render before it can get to
the newest one. That means that most of
the frames shown on your monitor will be
slightly delayed, and this delay can be
up to 10 milliseconds. Next is the
rendering mode. Should you use
performance mode or DirectX12? Before
you make a decision, let's talk about
the massive difference in render times.
DX12 lowest settings will give you up to
100% more render latency at the lowest
settings with the same frame rate. On
top of that, if you want far view
distance on DX12, you're forced to turn
on high meshes. And if you want low
meshes, you have to deal with low view
distance. So, unless your stutters are
really that bad in performance mode,
it's 100% the better option. The
following five graphics settings will
not affect your performance under any
circumstance. So, feel free to customize
them as much as you'd like. In graphics
quality, depending on how good or bad
your GPU is, decreasing the 3D
resolution can boost your FPS, but be
mindful of how low you drop the 3D res
because at a certain point, it has
absolutely no effect on your frames,
apart from making things impossible to
see. Every other setting below should be
set to low, except for view distance,
where the lowest I would go is medium.
And if you have a decent PC, there is no
reason for you to not use Epic since it
lets you see items from further away.
After that is meshes. Stick with low
meshes for less screen clutter and
better performance. And then for report
performance tests, the only thing it
does is send your stats to Epic Games at
the cost of your performance. So if you
would rather have more FPS, leave it
off. The final setting we're going to
touch on is Nvidia Reflex. Thank you
Epic Games for finally adding the
setting to performance mode. If you're
on an AMD or Intel graphics card,
though, skip this part of the video as
this does not affect you. Without
Reflex, normally the CPU cues frames for
the GPU to render so that there's always
one or two frames ready to output to
your monitor, which is great for getting
more FPS in single player games, but
it's not ideal for esports titles like
Fortnite, as those frames in the render
queue will be a bit delayed. With Nvidia
Reflex on, it makes that render queue as
small as possible so that you always get
the latest image. It might cost you some
FPS and might cause stutters, so
definitely try it on and then off to see
if it works well for you. But what does
reflex on plus boost do in Fortnite?
Well, since it's a CPUbound game where
your GPU is usually underutilized, your
GPU will often downclock itself, which
isn't ideal for getting the best
latency. By enabling reflex boost, it
prevents itself from downclocking to
further reduce input delay. But just
like having reflex on, be sure to test
on plus boost for yourself as it can
cause performance issues. And the last
thing we're going to do before getting
to the Windows optimizations is going to
the game tab at the top of the settings.
Then scroll all the way down until you
find the replay section. Feel free to
disable replays for additional
performance. However, FPS means nothing
if your ping sucks. I used to get 40
ping on NA central, but when I turned on
exit lag, it dropped to eight. Even on
eervers where I already have good ping,
exit lag rerouted me through optimized
paths and brought it all the way down to
one. With results like this, it's no
surprise that even Peterbot uses Exit
Lag without being sponsored by them. It
works by creating multiple optimized
routes to the game server in real time,
then automatically switching to the
fastest one. is like the internet's
version of a toll highway, bypassing
your ISP's inefficient routing, so you
get better ping. So, if you want lower
ping like me, you can try Exit Lag
completely free. And the best part is
that it doesn't need your credit card
information. Just head to the link in
the description, create an account, and
your free trial starts automatically.
Once it's installed, choose from over
2,000 supported games, and see what it
does for your connection. If you like
the free trial, take advantage of their
limited time deal. 12 months of Exit Lag
for the price of six. Try Exit Lag for
free with the link below. It might just
become your new favorite app. Now, for
the essential Windows optimizations that
actually boost your FPS, begin by
creating a restore point. It's a smart
first step before making system tweaks
as it allows you to easily roll back
changes if something goes wrong. To
create a restore point, press your
Windows key, type in create, and press
enter. Once this window shows up, click
on configure, turn on system protection,
then allocate as much space as you would
like for future restore points. since
you might want to create multiple as you
follow this guide. When you're happy
with that, click on apply and then okay.
Next, click on create and name it
something as boring and generic as
possible so you can easily forget why
you made the restore point. This can
take up to five whole seconds, but when
it's done, click on okay to close the
window. After your restore point is
created, press your Windows key, type in
game mode, press enter, and turn on game
mode. It simply makes less things run in
the background, which translates
directly into better FPS and latency.
Then go to graphics, change default
graphics settings, and enable
optimizations for windowed games. In
DX10 and DX11 games such as Fortnite,
this setting allows you to use windowed
full screen, but still get similar, if
not the same exact input delay as
exclusive full screen. If you use full
screen, though, this won't do anything.
If you see hardware accelerated GPU
scheduling in here, turn it on as well.
It essentially lets your GPU handle more
of the workload instead of your CPU,
which again is great for CPUheavy games
like Fortnite, where the GPU usually has
headroom. That said, it might cause
random stutters or system instability,
so it's worth trying, but definitely
switch it back off if you start running
into any of those problems. Next, we're
going to disable core isolation. This
feature uses virtualizationbased
security, basically running a mini
virtual machine in the background, which
reduces gaming performance by around 5%
on average. There is no performance
benefit to leaving it on, and as long as
you've got Windows Defender or any other
traditional antivirus, you'll be fine.
To disable it, hit the Windows key, type
core, and press enter. then just turn
off memory integrity. Next, we're going
to debloss for better performance. To do
this, we'll be using the newest version
of Chris Titus Tech's utility. I've used
it on every single Windows PC I've ever
owned. And the best part is you don't
even have to install anything. To run
the utility, press your Windows key,
type PowerShell, and run either Windows
PowerShell or PowerShell 7 as
administrator. Then, just type or copy
and paste the first line from the
description and hit enter. After a few
seconds, you should see a window like
this pop up. Once it opens, click on the
tweaks tab. For desktop users, you can
safely copy everything on the left side
of the screen. And for laptop users,
copy everything on the right. While
you're copying those options, I still
recommend hovering over each one to read
their description so you know exactly
what each one changes. Under advanced
tweaks caution, you can check off pretty
much everything apart from removing
Microsoft Store apps because you won't
be able to take screenshots with
snipping tool. And if you happen to
visit Adobe websites, don't turn on
Adobe network block as it makes any and
all Adobe websites completely unusable.
As for the set display to performance
options, skip that for now. We'll be
adjusting those display settings
manually later in the video. Once you're
happy with your options, click on run
tweaks. After a few minutes, a
confirmation window will show up saying
the tweaks are finished, and you can
safely close everything. Now, we're
going to change up the power plan since
it can have a real impact on both
latency and frame rate. Press your
Windows key, type power, and hit enter
to open up the power plan settings. If
you're using a mid to high-end PC, we're
going to add the ultimate performance
plan because in my experience, it
outperformed every other option across
the board. By default, the ultimate plan
won't show up. So, to add it, open
command prompt by pressing your Windows
key, typing cmd, and running it as
administrator. When you see the command
prompt window, type or paste the command
from the description, and press enter.
Once you reopen the power settings,
you'll find the ultimate performance
plan under the additional plan section.
To enable the power plan, simply select
it. I still recommend trying out a few
different plans and running some quick
benchmarks. But on most setups, it's
usually either the ultimate or balanced
power plan that ends up working the
best. Moving on to the registry editor
tweaks, and do not sleep on these
because these tweaks alone gave me 23.7%
better 1% lows, which you are going to
notice when you're actually playing the
game. So, press your Windows key, type
regge, and open it as admin. To get to
the correct folder, just select the text
up top and replace it with this line
from the description. After pressing
enter, you should be in the games
folder. So, double click GPU priority
and set that to decimal 8. Set priority
to six. And both scheduling category and
SFIO priority should be high. Scheduling
category on high improves
responsiveness. And SFIO priority on
high speeds up how fast your game gets
access to files it needs, such as
textures and audio. Next thing we're
going to do in the registry is change
the value for Win32 priority separation.
This controls how Windows balances CPU
resources between foreground apps like
Fortnite and background processes. By
default, Windows tries to strike a
balance between the two, but for gaming,
we want the processor to focus as much
as possible on the game, and that's
where this setting comes in. To get to
Win32 priority separation, copy and
paste this line from the description and
press enter. Most people, including me,
recommend setting it to decimal 38. That
value tells Windows to heavily
prioritize the game and reduce how much
attention background stuff gets. But
unlike the previous values we adjusted,
this isn't a one-sizefits-all type of
thing. So, if 38 doesn't give you the
results you wanted, Decimal 42, 36, 37,
and 40 are also worth trying. Just make
sure to restart your PC after each
wretch tweak to see what actually feels
best for your setup. The next tweak is
disabling network throttling. Turning
this off can help reduce network
latency, which is especially useful in
Fortnite. So, go back up here and paste
this path from the description. At
first, you might not see network
throttling index in this folder, but
that's not a problem. Just right click
on the right side, click new, then dword
32-bit value and name it network
throttling index. Then double click it
and set the value to hexadimal fff FF
FFF to completely disable network
throttling on your system. And for the
last reg tweak, it's going to be in the
folder we were just in called system
responsiveness. The default value is 20
decimal, which means Windows reserves
20% of CPU resources for background
tasks. If you have a 24 core i914900 K,
this probably won't do anything. But if
you're like me and have a six core CPU,
the difference is night and day. So just
double click on system responsiveness,
set the value to zero, and that'll let
your game take full advantage of the CPU
when it needs it without sacrificing
stability or breaking anything in the
background. Now for GPU tweaks, while
Fortnite is mostly CPU intensive,
optimizing your graphics card still
matters, especially if you're using a
lower-end GPU. Let's start with the
Nvidia settings. AMD users, skip to the
next chapter of this video. If you have
an Nvidia graphics card, rightclick your
desktop and open the Nvidia control
panel. Some people swear that these
settings don't affect performance, but
it makes a huge difference and changing
them takes just 2 minutes. Anyways, go
to manage 3D settings at the top left.
We're going to leave the first 17
settings default as they are all
perfectly optimized. On the OpenGL
rendering GPU, switch that from auto
select to whatever GPU you're currently
using. It won't affect Fortnite because
it doesn't use OpenGL, but for any other
games or software on your PC that does,
this can help eliminate performance
issues and stuttering. Next, on power
management mode, we're going to set that
to prefer maximum performance. This
keeps your GPU running at full speed
instead of downclocking when under light
load to give you the best performance
possible at all times. And of course,
it's completely safe. Nvidia allows you
to change this setting because your GPU
is designed to handle it. Then, set your
preferred refresh rate to highest
available for obvious reasons. For
shader cache size, increasing this value
to 10 GB has consistently reduced
stuttering for me and many others,
especially in shader heavy games.
Anything beyond 10 GB usually makes no
difference unless you're playing
literally hundreds of shader heavy AAA
games. Texture filtering and isotropic
sample optimization in extremely basic
terms helps your GPU handle textures
more easily. And in most games like
Fortnite, the only difference you'll
notice from enabling this is the better
FPS. Next, set texture filtering quality
to high performance. This makes your GPU
focus more on speed and efficiency than
making textures look perfect. So, the
game might look just a little less
detailed than it already is, but you'll
get smoother gameplay. And finally,
disable vertical sync. Next time you
reopen the game, play a few games to
rebuild the shader cache. And I can
almost guarantee that you will have
gained a significant FPS boost just from
changing these few settings. For AMD
graphics cards, these settings improved
my 1% lows and reduced both my RAM and
VRAM usage by about 1 GB each. So, don't
skip this part. So, open your AMD
software, click on the settings cog at
the top right, and select preferences.
Disable everything here and disable
hotkeys while you're at it, unless you
for some reason use AMD software
hotkeys. Next, go to gaming at the top,
find graphics, then scroll down to
texture filtering quality, and switch it
from standard to performance. It's most
useful on lower-end systems as it
reduces the GPU load slightly by
lowering texture filtering precision.
So, Fortnite might look a little less
crisp, but it can run smoother. Keep
surface format optimization enabled in
Fortnite. It typically helps reduce
VRAMm usage and increases consistency.
You should test this one individually
from the others though, as there is a
chance that you get worse performance
with it on. And finally, we're going to
disable tessellation. Set teslation mode
to override application settings and set
maximum tessellation level to off.
Fortnite doesn't use heavy tessellation,
so disabling it frees up GPU power
without affecting visuals. That's it for
GPU optimizations. Now, it's time to go
through every Windows setting to get
that last bit of performance out of your
PC, as well as improving your desktop's
overall responsiveness and privacy. To
open your Windows settings, press the
Windows key and I at the same time. I'm
personally on Windows 11, but if you're
on Windows 10, it's going to look a
little different for you, though most of
the steps will be exactly the same. On
the left side, click system, then select
notifications. While notifications
themselves don't affect performance, the
processes managing them can. So, I
recommend disabling notifications. Under
personalization, click dynamic lighting.
This background app manages your RGB
lighting and can conflict with other RGB
software. So, do turn off these two
settings whether or not you have RGB in
your system. Go to apps, then advanced
app settings, and disable share across
devices. This feature was linked to high
CPU usage bugs in the past. So, turning
it off reduces background processes and
prevents activity sharing across
devices, improving security. After that,
return to apps and select startup apps.
Disable anything you don't need running
at startup. Now click on accessibility
on the left, then visual effects.
Disable both transparency and animation
effects. Even if you don't see these
effects in game, your PC will allocate
resources for visual effects if you have
it enabled, so it's worth turning them
off, particularly on low-end systems.
Moving on to privacy and security. Click
through each subcategory from general to
activity history, and disable all
unnecessary options for better privacy
and security. You can always reenable
anything you want later, but personally,
I have everything disabled here. For
search permissions, I recommend
disabling everything except safe search,
which helps filter out inappropriate
content online. In the searching window
section, set find my files to classic
only if you have a super low-end PC to
reduce background CPU and disc usage.
For everyone else, it's not worth
getting a
0.001 FPS boost by sacrificing your file
searching speeds. To finish up these
Windows settings, click on Windows
update, go to advanced options, and
disable the top four settings. not only
for performance, but to also avoid
annoying update notifications and
automatic updates during active hours.
Then go to delivery optimization and
uncheck allow downloads from other
devices. When this is enabled, your PC
can upload Windows updates and apps to
other devices on the internet, which not
only uses bandwidth, but it can also
pose a small privacy or security risk.
Disabling it ensures your system isn't
sharing data behind your back. From
there, let's adjust some advanced system
settings. Just like the visual effects
we turned off earlier, these will
consume resources in the background
regardless of the fact that you can't
even see these effects when you're in a
game. To optimize these system settings,
press your Windows key, type advanced,
and hit enter. Under performance, click
settings. Click adjust for best
performance and reenable these three
specific settings near the bottom. This
way, you free up resources without
making Windows look like absolute trash.
To finish up the video, we're going to
do a quick BIOS tweak, enabling XMP,
Expo, or DOCP for your RAM to run at
full speeds. To check if you actually
need to do this tweak, open up the task
manager and see if your RAM is running
slower than it's supposed to. If it's
running at the speed you expected it to,
you don't need to do this part.
Otherwise, make sure that your RAM
supports
XMPP/XPO/DOCCP by checking its
information online or in the manual. To
enter the BIOS, restart your PC and
repeatedly press delete F2 or escape
depending on your motherboard. Proceed
by finding the
XMP/expo/ doocc setting. It's usually on
the main page or under tweaker and
enable it or select profile one. It's
not really a RAM overclock, but it lets
your RAM run at its advertised speed.
And you're done. If you found this video
useful, feel free to use code LE when
you buy the new battle pass. And don't
forget to get an Exit Lag free trial
with the link in the description.
Bye-bye.
[Music]